---
layout: post
title: Calculus III - Lecture 2
date: 2024-02-06
categories: maths
tags: calculus_iii
math: true
---

Calculus on Mengnifolds

Maybe I will type up some commutative diagrams here a bit later.

Lecture highlights:

1. Notations
2. Review of linear algebra
2. The set of bases of $V$ may be naturally identified with the set of bases of $V^\ast$
2. 1-form/covector, 2-form
2. Free vector spaces
2. Quotient spaces
2. Tensor Products

M: In my book I use the theoretical physicist convention: referring to using $u^i$ instead of $u_i$ for vector component. Our brain has very small RAM, so symbols should be as simple as possible. 

M: When I learn something, I rarely prove it at first, then when I had lots of these things, the proof will become obvious. I started to seriously study math at age of 24, when I made the transition from theoretical physics, and I think that I learn quite quickly.

M: Some peole say that physicists are algebraists, they just remember the algebraic rules. But I think that is an insult to physicists, because when they talk about physics, they have to know the meaning. They just don't have the time to do maths.

M: There was an MIT professor called [inaudible]. He complained about tensor product. He said that now we have two algebras, algebra 1 and algebra 2. Algebra 1 is like the high end of maths and algebra 2 is like the low end. Tensor product belongs to algebra 2, so does Boolean algebra, which engineers use. Algebra 1 is like algebraic number theory and algebraic geometry. 

M: If you learn linear algebra in a proper way, I'm not sure if that is the case. 

M: Pointing to his universal property definition of free vector space: This should be taught in a linear algebra course, unfortunately it isn't. This course is for prepared students. If you are not, attending these lectures will be very painful. 

M: If you are serious about this course, you must spend time. 

## My chaotic typing

Trivialisation: an isomorphism from $V$ to $\mathbb{R}^n$. Can be identified naturally with basis. 

Canonical representation of $T$ is a matrix of the form 
$$
\begin{pmatrix}
I_r & O \\
O & O
\end{pmatrix}.
$$

<!-- https://q.uiver.app/#q=WzAsNixbMCwwLCJWIl0sWzEsMCwiVyJdLFswLDEsIlxcbWF0aGJie1J9Xm4iXSxbMSwxLCJcXG1hdGhiYntSfV5tIl0sWzAsMiwiXFxtYXRoYmJ7Un1ebiJdLFsxLDIsIlxcbWF0aGJie1J9Xm0iXSxbMCwxLCJUIl0sWzIsMywiQSJdLFs0LDUsIlxcYmVnaW57cG1hdHJpeH0gSV9yICYgTyBcXFxcIE8gJiBPIFxcZW5ke3BtYXRyaXh9IiwyXSxbMiw0LCJcXGNvbmciLDJdLFszLDUsIlxcY29uZyJdLFswLDIsIltdX0IiLDJdLFsxLDMsIltdX3tCJ30iXV0= -->
<iframe class="quiver-embed" src="https://q.uiver.app/#q=WzAsNixbMCwwLCJWIl0sWzEsMCwiVyJdLFswLDEsIlxcbWF0aGJie1J9Xm4iXSxbMSwxLCJcXG1hdGhiYntSfV5tIl0sWzAsMiwiXFxtYXRoYmJ7Un1ebiJdLFsxLDIsIlxcbWF0aGJie1J9Xm0iXSxbMCwxLCJUIl0sWzIsMywiQSJdLFs0LDUsIlxcYmVnaW57cG1hdHJpeH0gSV9yICYgTyBcXFxcIE8gJiBPIFxcZW5ke3BtYXRyaXh9IiwyXSxbMiw0LCJcXGNvbmciLDJdLFszLDUsIlxcY29uZyJdLFswLDIsIltdX0IiLDJdLFsxLDMsIltdX3tCJ30iXV0=&embed" width="304" height="432" style="border-radius: 8px; border: none;"></iframe>

Algebra is vector space equipped with a bilinear product

Endormorphism algebra

1-form on $V$ is a linear map form $V$ to $\mathbb{R}$, also called a covector on $V$

dual space $V^\ast$ is space of covectors

$B_V \equiv B_{V^\ast}$, set isomorphism, naturally identified:

2-form $\omega$ on $V$ is bilinear map $V^2 \to \omega \mathbb{R}$, $(\underline{u}, \underline{v} ) \to \omega (\underline{u}, \underline{v})$

$ \mathrm{Map}^{BL}(V\times V, \mathbb{R}) $ is a linear space of dim $ (\dim V)^{2} $

$ S_{2} $ acts on $ V\times V $. 


Notation list:

1. Einstein notation: $\vec{u} = u^i \vec{e}_i $: hide the summation; to denote a single vector component, just write $u^i$
2. Use $\underline{u}$ for abstract vector, and $\vec{u}$ for coordinate vector
3. $B_W$ denote set of bases of $W$